hey this is prestel Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions this is a
fun problem that appeared on a math exam
in Scotland a hundred and thirty years
ago in 1888 a person walks from rugby to
London in four days and back in five
days each day he walks one mile less
than on the preceding day what is the
distance between the two places I think
the National Library of Scotland for
digitizing these old tests can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution so how can we solve
this problem we'll get started with a
little bit of a diagram we have rugby
and then we're making a one-way trip to
London let's suppose in the first day
the person walks a distance of W miles
the next day the person walks one mile
less which will be W minus one then W
minus two and finally the person reaches
London after walking W minus three miles
so the total distance from rugby to
London over these four days will be the
sum of these distances which is four W
minus six we now consider the trip back
from London to rugby this will be a
five-day trip in the first day the
person walks one mile less which will be
W minus four then we have W minus 5w
minus 6w minus seven and finally on the
fifth day it's W minus eight so the
total distance on the return trip will
be the sum of these distances which is
5w minus 30 so where do we go from here
well notice the total distance from
rugby to London is the same as the total
distance from London back to rugby so we
must have four W minus six is
to 5w minus 30 we can solve this to get
that W is equal to 24 finally we need to
solve for the distance between the two
places
so we substitute back in and we get the
distance of 4 times 24 minus 6 which is
equal to 90 miles and that's the answer
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video these math videos
which can be watched for free on YouTube
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they already have
over 800 million views let's share the
beauty of mathematics with your help we
can map the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all of mind your
decisions videos and email me a puzzle
or map topic presh and mind your
decisions I come if you so choose you
can check out my books which are listed
in the video description and you can
support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support